


## 2022-12-8

#### Attendees: (Change color or add your entry)



* Jonathan Meadows (Citi) he/him
* Jacques Chester (Shopify) he/him
* Randall T. Vasquez (Gentoo/Homebrew)
* Daniel Appelquist (Snyk)
* Piergiorgio Ladisa (SAP)
* Jay White (Microsoft)
* Allan Friedman (CISA)
* Mitch Ashley (Techstrong Group, DevOps.com)
* Abdullah Garcia (JP Morgan) he/him
* CRob (Intel, OSSF TAC)


#### Agenda



* Who will be scribe?
    * I can - Dan
* Any new friends?
* Mitch - Update on GitHub Pages
    * Documentation / README page… mission, description, etc…
    * [https://github.com/ossf/wg-endusers](https://github.com/ossf/wg-endusers) 
* Jon - Update on proposals
    * Had a chat with TAC members - will be on the next TAC meeting agenda - taxonomy and end-to-end arch documents.
    * CRob: +1
* Andrew - End User Group EOY statement
    * J: Andrew did a EOY statement with Jen Bly. It reviews our goals, remit, number of contributors, etc…
* Jon - “collecting malicious threats / supply chain total”
    * How do we progress this?
    * Last week had checkmarks come and add their thoughts… reached out to the “securing software repo” wg… There is interest in getting together as ad hoc group.
    * Jacques: securing software repos group going to report at TAC next week. Multiple groups have had the same idea. We’re going to figure out amongst ourselves what to do … will ask for guidance / advice from the TAC.
    * Jon: a couple of people interested in collaborating on that. A couple of other proposals like that in other wgs… **ACTION** to set up a meeting next week.
* Jon - Planning for next year
    * Deliverables
        * Where do we take things next year?  Anything specific that we feel is missing.
        * Jacques: providing space for different end users to share their experiences … as we grow the group … people will start road-testing and applying. The group is a good place to share experiences with each other.
        * Abdullah: architectures document - we haven’t established from a regulated user/consumer yet… perhaps we want to expand on the other functions; vulnerability management - and how it relates to other processes.
        * J: we need to define - not just small, medium, large…
        * Dan: SBOM and how it might relate to certifications such as PCI.. could be useful for next year. ← also related to SBOM everywhere workstream
            * Allan: a guide for SBOMs 
            * Abdullah: falls into development part of org - but also related to 3rd part assessments. 
            * Allan: internal development team - generating… what we want to move to - we want to encourage use of SBOM - but then what are you going to do with it to contribute to your risk management? So what are some of the existing security tools you have? Asset management, vulnerability management, etc… how can we say “we want you to integrate SBOM data into it.”
            * Abdullah: as e.g. a hospital we need to explore that…
            * Jacques: I feel like there’s an open loop - between SBOM folks and auditors - if auditors are starting to want to see SBOMs then we need to give auditors the information they need to evaluate SBOMs. We need to talk to auditors.
            * Jonathan: an outreach - trying to put together as a group .. outreach component. 
        * I’ve heard from members of the group that we’re talking to large numbers of enterprises… while not everyone is coming back to this group we’re having those conversations externally - how do we get those conversations back to this group? We’re missing that element. A lot of information we can share bi-directionaly.
            * CRob: the education SIG will be creating materials - lots of opportunities for collaboration with education SIG.
        * Jon: We need to work together more closely with other working groups. New year’s resolution.
            * There’s a group of people in OpenSSF working to document activities across the foundation - the diagrammmer’s society. E.g. a mind map .. mind map file. 
            * [https://github.com/ossf/Diagrammers-Society/tree/main/drawings](https://github.com/ossf/Diagrammers-Society/tree/main/drawings) 
            * [https://github.com/ossf/Diagrammers-Society/blob/main/drawings/osf-mindmap.png](https://github.com/ossf/Diagrammers-Society/blob/main/drawings/osf-mindmap.png) 
    * Expanding input into other groups
    * Growing group membership
* [All] Any additional notes from working groups
    * CRob: the education SIG in the final stages to propose to the GB for funding for education. Formal call for comments for BP and edu SIG in next 2 weeks. Everyone welcome to participate. OSS-SIRT SIG - plan for a dedicated security incident response team. 2 efforts that this group is welcome to participate in.
        * [https://github.com/ossf/SIRT/issues/32](https://github.com/ossf/SIRT/issues/32) & [https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/131](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/131) 
        * [https://github.com/ossf/education/issues/64](https://github.com/ossf/education/issues/64) ← please wait until EoD Friday to provide feedback, last few tweaks being made by SIG on Section2 ATM
    * Jon: Attended LF Energy presentation - gave presentation about supply chain and what this group is doing. They’ve got a full book of work. They’re looking at a different area of supply chain security than we are. We’re looking at IT and vendors… they are looking at massive infrastructure that has software in it as well.
* AOB
    * Meet again before the end of the year?
        * Next meeting on 5th of Jan.
    * Awesome notes as always Dan, much appreciated!
    * Happy holidays everyone


## 2022-11-28


#### Attendees: (Change color or add your entry)



* Jonathan Meadows (Citi) he/him
* Jeff Wayman (Sonatype) he/him
* Andrew Aitken (Wipro) he/him
* Jonathan Kent (Citi) he/him
* Jacques Chester (Shopify) he/him
* Randall T. Vasquez (Gentoo/Homebrew)
* Henrik Plate (Endor Labs)
* Serena Ponta (SAP)
* Piergiorgio Ladisa (SAP)
* Rao (JP Morgan)


#### Agenda



* Who will be scribe? 
    * Jacques, who is losing his voice
* Any new friends?
    * Tzachi from Checkmarx. Runs supply chain malicious detection for Checkmarx. Threat intel background.
    * Jeff from Sonatype, works with Brian Fox on DevAdv/DevRel. Prev education SIG and best practices WG.
    * Brian Fox, CTO at Sonatype.
* Henrik - [SCORED Supply Chain Conference](https://scored.dev/program/) summary
    * First SCORED workshop, co-hosted with CCS conf on Nov 11
    * Organizers say it was well received and got plenty of submissions, will continue in future
    * 12 papers, keynote from Trevor Rosen fr/ Github, panel with (missed names)
    * Academic focus rather than end-user focus
    * Presented 
        * Risk Explorer with SAP colleague
        * First steps towards detecting malicious Java archives using heuristics
    * Some highlights
        * Keynote: how Github will use sigstore to secure future npm deployments. Mantra was open source should be built in public as well as stored in public.
        * Panel: statement of “Chinny” from U Texas, about making software vendors liable for flawed software they ship (see her paper “Tragedy of the Digital Commons” for deets)
            * Would industry later use OpenSSF as an argument to evade this liability / lobby against it? She said in conversation that several vendors are actually not opposed to liability.
        * Google Research: Policy Transparency, a formal language based on datalog to describe policies for artifact consumption 
        * U of Geneva: automatic security assessments of GHA workflows
        * U of Oxford: Analysis to find vulns in closed source supply chains: differential analysis of closed source malware (eg NotPetya, Sunburst). Differences between benign and malicious versions, what indicators could be found.
* Henrik/Jon M - Update on [example architectures](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QUSQBNfkFk2JMFqYT6qisq6s_Tb9fz3hrzxRHHv5W5w/edit#slide=id.p) / proposal for TAC
    * Sketching high level architectures for small cloud-centric dev org, enterprise/large dev org, regular consumer, regulated consumer.
    * All data in the threat model maps to these architectures
    * Distinguishes 1st/3rd party code and interactions between stages
    * Andrew Aiken: does 3rd party include commercial / closed source?
        * Henrik: Yes, more explicitly called out in large/enterprise diagram.
        * Andrew: suggest using “closed source” as OSS can be commercial
    * Enterprise includes more roles and activities; eg. inner-source contributor, forensics, SREs etc
    * Of course Enterprise can have many configurations; this one assumes source and build systems are internal to the org rather than public / SaaS offerings.
    * One noticeable difference with SLSA is diagramming the developer workstation
    * In the longer run we will need to remove product/vendor names from the diagram for neutrality
    * Discussion about terminology: commercial vs open source. Possible approach is to classify into source and binary consumption.
    * Call for further input and reviews.
* Mitch Ashley - Updated GitHub Pages
    * Mitch sends regrets
    * When we became a WG we got a full repo and pages. Mitch volunteered to do work on it.
    * We’ll ask Mitch for a link to review.
* Jon M - Supply Chain Total Feedback
    * Update following participant discussion
    * Discussion at Lake Tahoe meeting
    * Tzachi’s org at Checkmarx also interested in this.
        * At CM we try to cover more than code (it’s a malicious people problem, not malicious code problem)
        * Noticed that researchers don’t have access to malicious packages to study because they get deleted. Makes it hard to start work on models or research.
        * CM made contributions to Backstabber’s/Taxonomy dataset.
        * CM starting a repo, perhaps we need better coordination/sharing in security vendor industry
        * Andrew Aiken: heard that data set would be opensourced?
            * Among other things missing a shared taxonomy for submitting data
            * Collect, analyze, share data. We also need some sort of shared format à la STIX/VEX.
        * Jon Meadows: taxonomy is one of our proposals to TAC. Collecting this data would also be a way to maintain/evolve the taxonomy and threat models as the landscape changes. Goal is to avoid staleness in taxonomy/threat models. How do we move this forward?
        * Henrik: have seen existing OpenSSF doc about collecting malicious data. That proposal also included exploiting known vulns. Want to ensure focus on malicious packages.
            * Tzachi: mostly need to be consistent when categorizing “malicious” and “vulnerable”. Most don’t have a CVE.
            * AKA: deliberate and accidental vulnerabilities.
        * Piergiorgio: Possible side problem - when researchers want to notify repos. Reporting can be cumbersome, especially in cases of hundreds (!) of packages, but reporting is package at a time. Also: how to motivate the community to search for packages - bug bounties?
            * Tzachi: agree, dealing with hundreds of email conversations, struggling with MTTR / MTTD - sometimes fast, sometimes slow. Props to PyPI for making this easier. Some kind of API would be ideal.
        * Jon Meadows: do think we need to raise profile of malicious packages for end users.
            * We should set up a call with Securing Software Repos WG folks to discuss this further.
    * Jacques pointed out Securing Software Repos WG has had the same idea!
* Jon M - Last call for proposal feedback
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yzD2tryFM8LlKoIfUFELOFlcHHDcwrz7SPd4rVc-vjU/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yzD2tryFM8LlKoIfUFELOFlcHHDcwrz7SPd4rVc-vjU/edit#)
    * This is the proposal to go to TAC about Connected Initiative. Got reviewed with CRob and others.
    * Call for feedback - in the next two days, please.
* Jon M/Joshua - SLSA Feedback
    * Taxonomy discussion regarding “packaging ecosystem”
    * Surprisingly tricky to define in experience of Securing Software Repos WG foundation
    * We call it out but don’t really define it
    * Andrew Aiken: nervous about “conventions within org” being included in the concept of an ecosystem.
* Jon M - Workgroup list
    * [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/151sK0zMcSbzmUnrBuLSjtoB3RcO7bHxWOmGLK30UPrk/edit#gid=0](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/151sK0zMcSbzmUnrBuLSjtoB3RcO7bHxWOmGLK30UPrk/edit#gid=0)
    * Any we feel we’re missing?
* [All] Any additional notes from working groups
    * Lots postponed for turkey festival
    * Jacques Chester: Securing Software Repos WG feedback: when making funding proposals, consider (1) day-to-day operational setup, talk to  when proposing (2) discuss alternatives.
    * Andrew Aiken: keen to see movement on JDs before EOY
* AOB
* More folks are coming to join soon, hopefully seeing Boeing and Uber in new year.


## 2022-11-10


#### Attendees: (Change color or add your entry)



* Jonathan Meadows (Citi) he/him
* Andrew Aitken (Wipro) he/him
* Randall T. Vasquez (Gentoo/Homebrew)
* Daniel Appelquist (Snyk)
* Eric Tice (Wipro)
* Avishay Balter (Microsoft)
* Allan Friedman (CISA)
* Mitch Ashley (Techstrong Group)
* Abdullah Garcia (JP Morgan)
* Sherif Mansour (Just Eat Takeaway.com)
* Glen Ten Cate (OWASP/Ing)
* Andy Sparry (Meta FinTech)
* Chris Blask (Cybeats)
* Jason Keirstead (IBM)


#### Agenda



* Who will be scribe? 
* Any new friends?
* JM - TAC Proposal: Supply Chain Initiative
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/15m61ZN35JTwhb_l_Tcjm3v3uGyeT1hgXyQaQZfhwyPA/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15m61ZN35JTwhb_l_Tcjm3v3uGyeT1hgXyQaQZfhwyPA/edit#)
* JM - TAC Proposal: Adoption of Taxonomy as discussed in previous meetings
    * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yzD2tryFM8LlKoIfUFELOFlcHHDcwrz7SPd4rVc-vjU/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yzD2tryFM8LlKoIfUFELOFlcHHDcwrz7SPd4rVc-vjU/edit#)
* JM - Workgroup list
    * [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/151sK0zMcSbzmUnrBuLSjtoB3RcO7bHxWOmGLK30UPrk/edit#gid=0](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/151sK0zMcSbzmUnrBuLSjtoB3RcO7bHxWOmGLK30UPrk/edit#gid=0)
* [All] Any additional notes from working groups
    * [Randall] - EDU - The open call for the contribution of educational materials ends soon. \
[https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/14g7jdt-e-AV1aeFFDKpPkyUh3ljPhC2kalaojMurqBU/edit#gid=0](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/14g7jdt-e-AV1aeFFDKpPkyUh3ljPhC2kalaojMurqBU/edit#gid=0)
    * [Randall] - SIRT - Would like to know if anyone has contact with any SIRT teams that you think would like to participate in consulting with the SIRT SIG and help shape our SIRT efforts?
    * CISA Cloud and Vex working groups
* JM - Supply Chain Total?
    * Concept discussion for comment / feedback
* AOB


#### Notes



* **New friends**: Andy Sparry; Mitch Ashley - Techstrong; Alan Friedman (CISA); Glen Carte - OWASP, SKF; Avishay Belter from MS.
* **Supply chain initiative**: proposal to the TAC. Problem statement - as we look at supply chain problem it’s complex and no real understanding of how the mitigations fit together… We have multiple best practices guides… So we want to provide a holistic program - where ssc, sbom, slsa fits… align with OSSF projects. Threat model … taxonomy … identify some gaps. Some questions: what does  small, medium & large consumer look like; taxonomy; best practices; maintenance.
    * Jason: [on sizes] also a “regulated” environment - not necessarily a large enterprise, bould be small but regulated e.g. in defence…
    * Dan: suggest as a separate note on regulation…
    * Mitch: Categories - persona based …
    * JM: define what these 3 are … and “low regulatory” “high regulatory” - these are the personas to be used. We do have a list of personas.  We should add in associating personas.
    * Discussion on small / e.g. small logistics business - they’re smaller but have modern tools. Might be easier… 
    * Allan: …NIST-161… 
    * Andrew: this will evolve
    * JM: as we define the initiative - the idea is to look at existing data on supply chain exploits and how it would impact these architectures… We need to analyze future attacks. Highlighting maintenance - we should “keep tuning” our model. At the end of next year it might be different.
    * Glen: get a group of “hackers” - look at it from a hacker mindset?
    * JM: We suggested a threat model… we could also add this to “validating the approach”.
    * Andrew: need a holistic landscape of how openssf tools help them address the threats…Identifying what OpenSSF is trying to achieve using the language of audience, where some of the gaps are, what some of the solutions are…
    * JM: ties in actual threat with what we’re going to do about it (through OpenSSF).
    * JM: Agreement to put forward to the TAC?
    * Andrew: we need to have a plan - they will ask how we get this done. We need to think through that.
    * JM: Suggest we take on as a working group effort. We need to reach out to the different wg’s that this touches. Happy to add more detail on the how.
    * Andrew: wil help write that in the next week.
    * *recorded consensus this is a reasonable approach*
    * Dan: can be co-editor
* **Taxonomy**: when we discuss supply chain attacks - we propose to adopt the taxonomy presented from paper “taxonomy of attacks” - also comes with a tool. Lots of detail. Proposal is to adopt the taxonomy and review as part of other proposal. Update with prevalence data.
    * *recorded consensus of wg on this*
* **Working Group List:** We want to participate in a lot of working groups as an end user forum.
    * Sherif: anything from SBOM?
    * Multiple : SBOM  everywhere (in Tooling working group); also VEX (Allan); 
    * Andrew: As we have people allocated we should have regular updates - even if it’s “no update”.
    * Allan: on longer term agenda: what do we do with SBOMs in an automated way - what are some of the other vendor communities to reach out to?
    * Sherif: How they’re been queried… Virtual querying systems… general queries that can help people to leverage them.
    * Jason: Adoption of machine readable formats of vulnerability disclosures is very low. Not all vendors have CVEs assigned… I think it’s a gap. We have the vulnerability working group but hasn’t come up there.
* **Updates from WGs**:
    * Education resources: [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/14g7jdt-e-AV1aeFFDKpPkyUh3ljPhC2kalaojMurqBU/edit#gid=0](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/14g7jdt-e-AV1aeFFDKpPkyUh3ljPhC2kalaojMurqBU/edit#gid=0) we need more input here.
    * We are working on an OpenSSF CERT process but don’t want to duplicate process.
    * We have a lexicon we’re putting together in Education.
    * Allan: VEX: trying to finish spec of what must be in a VEX - align with current implementations. Also providing guides on how to produce VEX. 
    * …SBOM… we need to document the market need for SBOM integration with tools..  Thing people excited about “service BOM” - what other 3rd party services is my service using?
* **Supply Chain Total**: Collate attacks that we see in the wild into a single data lake - then pull out patterns through analysis. Much richer data to be had…
    * A vendor might be about to release some of this data… working with github and some of the package managers… 


## 2022-10-13

**Attendees: (Change color or add your entry)**



* Jonathan Meadows (Citi) he/him
* Jacques Chester (Shopify) he/him
* Randall T. Vasquez (Gentoo/Homebrew)
* Henrik Plate (Endor Labs)
* Daniel Appelquist (Snyk)
* Eric Tice (Wipro)
* Daniel Sawano (Spotify)
* Robert Nissa Holmgren (Spotify) he/him
* Serena Ponta (SAP)
* Piergiorgio Ladisa (SAP)
* Avishay Balter (Microsoft)
* Jay White (Microsoft)

**Agenda**



* Who will be scribe? -Dan
* Any new friends?
* CVD Guide for OSS Consumers in Vulnerability Disclosures WG
    * [https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/issues/115](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/issues/115)
* Call for End User Educational Materials
    * SKF working on retooling the entire educational platform. It would be nice to start thinking about if we want some End User Education on SKF.
        * [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/14g7jdt-e-AV1aeFFDKpPkyUh3ljPhC2kalaojMurqBU/edit](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/14g7jdt-e-AV1aeFFDKpPkyUh3ljPhC2kalaojMurqBU/edit)
* [Piergiorgio Ladisa / Henrik Plate] Supply Chain Attack Taxonomy from co-authors of Backstabber's Knife Collection
    * Paper: [SoK: Taxonomy of Attacks on Open-Source Software Supply Chains](https://www.computer.org/csdl/proceedings-article/sp/2023/933600a167/1He7XSTyRKE)
    * Tool: [Risk Explorer for Software Supply Chains](https://sap.github.io/risk-explorer-for-software-supply-chains/)
    * Details of taxonomy, usage and potential to leverage taxonomy, exploit dataset and threat model
* [All] Any additional notes from working groups
* AOB

**Notes**



* _New friends**: Henrik**_ - Endor Labs. Open Source Security… in the past worked with University of Bonn .. before that with SAP on Eclipse Steady an OS vulnerability scanner. ; **Piergiogio** - PHD student at SAP. Topic : OSS … taxonomy [something] attacks. **Serena** (SAP); **Tom Alrich** - independent supply chain security consultant - working with NTIA, CISA, .. working on SBOMs.
* _CVD Guide for OSS Consumers in Vulnerability Disclosures WG_

    **Crob**: in vulnerability disclosures wg - we inform world on vulnerabilities sharing practices… we have a guide for open source maintainers… we have doc focusing on security researchers… the group thought a good next project would be a guide focused on end “consumers” of OSS… explaining the ecosystem… better to ingest and use OS. This group might have some ideas…


    **Jonathan**: this was one of our deliverables.. Phase 1 - which guide would be missing… sounds like a good fit.


    **Dan**: vulnerability disclosures?


    **Crob**: yes and …


    **Dan**: sounds very valuable… Forensic approach.


    Jonathan: we should also identify other gaps - policies of ingestion from an end user perspective… they don’t put the policy in place regarding SBOMs… Take-away to map out that list.


    **Crob**: on consumption point - we have a concise guide [in best practices wg] for consuming OS software.. This could be augmented and expanded. A good starting point. [wg-best-practices-os-developers/Concise-Guide-for-Evaluating-Open-Source-Software.md at main · ossf/wg-best-practices-os-developers (github.com)](https://github.com/ossf/wg-best-practices-os-developers/blob/main/docs/Concise-Guide-for-Evaluating-Open-Source-Software.md)


    **Jacques**: a good match up with SSC with helping people think of thinking of policy… I also think vuln doc would be good.


    **Jonathan**: on SSC we should get together as a group to feedback on SSC.  There’s a SIG that’s been set up. How shall we funnel feedback?


    **Jay**: Willing to meet in the SIG - in the SIG we’ll be more focused… getting it in the proper format; coming out of the working sessions; closing PRs & issues; we want stuff to get into issues and PRs so it can get properly addressed. SIG meetings should concentrate on ratification.


    **Jonathan**: i’ll do a doodle poll …

* _End User Educational Materials_ \
**Randall**: this is about if people have educational material… I’ll send a link to the spreadsheet. \
**Jonathan**: we need to get together asynchronously to discuss the gaps.
* _Supply Chain Attack Taxonomy from co-authors of Backstabber's Knife Collection_

    **Henrik**: [presents paper - link above] …continuation… of backstabbers knife collection. We came up with [paper] - became a taxonomy. Defining classes of any supply chain attack; safeguards; utility & costs of safeguards and which are in use by developers… 100 attack vectors… linked to real-world incidents… [presents visualization from paper]. [presents table - summary of feedback from experts on cost & utility of various safeguards].


    **Piergiorgio: **[presents tool - link above] explore the taxonomy in an interactive way…  Also all references attached … ** **would like to have the tool under the OpenSSF umbrella … community to maintain the tool… 


    **Henrik**: Why it fits to this wg… interesting to penetration testers… more use cases … we knew from the beginning that such a tool under SAP doesn’t make as much sense - which is why we propose to move it over to OpenSSF…


    **Jonathan**: I found this useful - i put together a threat model - architecture view of supply chain. Started with a threat model - quickly got to classification of threats - brought me to a taxonomy. The bit missing is the prevalence of these different attacks. I’d like to figure out where in the architecture to put mitigation. Probabilistic approach.


    **Piergiorgio**: I reviewed data on compromises… feature idea - increasing size of a node if more attacks associated… I don’t want to give a false impression about attacks …


    **Jacques**: this has had a big impact. I’d be cautious about use of red and green - due to a11y ; in terms of adoption, how do these things fit together? Taxonomy - where does it fit with SLSA and SSC - both of them have clusters of definitions…


    **Henrik**: for colors that should be done - we had that feedback - for what concerns link ing other initiatives: one feedback - in SLSA you have a system model - pretty close to what we were using. 2nd thing: If you select a safeguard you would highlight all attack vectors covered;


    **Jacques**: i think the question is - I have 2 things: the taxonomy and SLSA; in the situation where they [are in conflict] it could cause angst.


    **Piergiorgio**: I looked at this… First goal of taxonomy was to systematize the knowledge.  For SLSA it provides level of maturity of how to preserve integrity. There could be some confusion on safeguards. We could think about how to better integrate SLSA. But scope is a bit different. 


    **Jonathan**: I think it’s an opportunity. Lots of seedling projects. Started to get some decent traction. From an end user perspective we’re at the coal face. So it seems to me the work Crob is leading of an architecture - if we apply a taxonomy and then .. with mitigations - we can review those as we use SLSA and SSC. You don’t want clashing mitigations. We see it from an enterprise perspective. Pulling the lot together. 


    **Jay**: Agree. This piece - especially the taxonomy - these can be joined together. Find bridges. This taxonomy could be built out so it does what MITRE(?) does but explicitly for supply chain security and how it will evolve over time. What can we foresee?


    **Henrik**: taxonomy is taking the perspective of “the attacker.” Next steps?


    **Jonathan**: proposal to the TAC to adopt the taxonomy…? Is that appropriate architecturally?


    **Crob**: we’re grappling with these ideas and efforts that bridge many groups. So yes suggest proposing it up. Be opinionated about what the proposal is. 


    **Jonathan**: Will propose a joined up initiative and basic taxonomy to the TAC. **I will write a first draft of the proposal. &lt; ACTION**


    **Jay**: because of the **joint** part - SLSA should hear this too. Maybe when it gets proposed to the TAC we’re in joint agreement. 


    **Jonathan**: an item that needs doing - creating a matrix of other working groups…


    Suggestions of : vulnerabilities, education, best practices, SSC, SLSA… Marketing group.


0.1 OSSF Reference Diagram - This lists/categorizes all the current efforts throughout the foundation.  Efforts are underway to create different views/architectures for broader consumption 

<img width="747" alt="ref-diagram-oct-2022" src="https://github.com/ossf/wg-endusers/assets/51727488/015b23a7-b139-4175-819c-66840058a38e">



**OSSF Diagrammer Society Meeting [Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14i9v7WuQcLzWpvLe9B0sl-kf90JLwxNwrZkRXLWmEdQ/edit#heading=h.9m0zi4b0wnne)**


## 2022-09-29

**Attendees: (Change color or add your entry)**



* Jonathan Meadows (Citi) he/him
* Jacques Chester (Shopify) he/him
* Randall T. Vasquez (Gentoo/Homebrew)
* Daniel Appelquist (Snyk)
* CRob (Intel) he/him
* VM Brasseur (Wipro) she/her
* Ionut Ambrosie (Volvo Cars)
* Jason Keirstead (IBM)
* Georg Kunz (Ericsson)
* Avishay Balter (Microsoft)
* Jay White (Microsoft)

**Agenda**



* Who will be scribe?
* Any new friends?
* [Jon Meadows] - Approve Goals Document
* [Andrew Aitkin] - Intro Email content review / approval
* [Jon Meadows] - SSC: Thoughts, motion to support from end users group with suggested changes
* [Jon Meadows] - Personas document. Request for feedback
* [All] Any additional notes from working groups
* AOB

**Notes**

[new friends call]

Ionut from Volvo.

Crob

Goals Document: 

Jonathan: we had a review between myself, Randall and Emily. We’ve got draft mission and initial state of deliverables. Distinct voice at the OpenSSF - the end user perspective. Persona doc and list of controls. Matrix and different team members… Promotio of best practices & outreach. Sectors e.g. automotive, pharma, govt, etc… 

[CRob] the foundation does have a set of personas we perhaps could leverage/improve on  here: [https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main/docs/personas.md](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main/docs/personas.md) 

Crob: +1

Randall: +1

Dan: +1

Jacques: +1

_Accepted as good goals document._

Agreement that it can evolve. 

Vicky: can it be moved into gitub.

Dan: I can take the **action** to do that.

Jonathan: we can put other things in github as well.

**SSC**

Jonathan: last call we had MS present on SSC. Some updates requested: removing Microsoft trademark… etc…

Jacques: it got voted into supply chain integrity yesterday.

Jay: we voted in the community meeting - at the suggestion of David wheeler - which wg it belonged in. Majority went with Supply Chain integrity working group. They voted it yesterday to bring it into that working group.  It was in the SSC community meeting.

Jonathan: isn’t it the next step for the TAC…

Jay: yes - it’s on the agenda for the TAC next week. As I said before regardless of where it lives there will be a SIG created for it and anyone can work on it in that SIG. And bridged with SLSA towards complete supply chain specification.

Dan: no matter what group it’s in it should have the input from people in our groups.

Vicky: i don’t think it needs to be a SIG - it can be a _project_. CRob what do you think?

Crob: if this is managed like all the other work in the foundation - generally the meetings are open to everyone who wants to contribute. Where it lives in the foundation is paperwork. The SSC would need to report to a particular working group. I feel there is value and merit in this effort. From a TAC perspective all wg’s empowered to make own decisions. TAC and governing board should be informed.

Andrew: I was hoping it would come into this wg - but if it’s in its own project where everyone has full access then that’s fine. It’s not end user specific. It needs end user input.

[CRob: supporting project rather than SIG]

Jonathan: I think it hits a lot of the requirements that we have as end users. One of the key approaches we have as a working group is spreading out to different working groups. End user wg will join. We can highlight to the TAC we are interested in it and we can have a lot of people from this wg showing up.

Jay: _project_ is fine with me. And I want everyone involved.

Crob: this group might appoint certain people to always go to that call to represent this group’s interest.

Jonathan: we can put together a matrix of work items we want to cover.

**Intro Email**

Andrew: i put it at bottom of goals doc. Purpose: as we go out and recruit more users we have this to make use of. Summary of OpenSSF and of this wg and its goals.

Dan: suggest spelling out acronyms - even if well known in this group.

****Approved**** with some 

**Personas** 

Andrew: i think it would be good to have a personas doc that everyone can agree on (across the OpenSSF). At the TAC level can we get agreement?

Crob: some prior art - I’d prefer to augment that. I agree we should have a foundation level artefact. In Education sig we agreed to have glossary. Regarding personas we can agree to do it at the TAC… 

Jacques: [toc]

Vicky: in all of the groups i work with these questions of commonalities comes of frequently. Same terminology. All in favor of. Because this group has a stake in it - maybe OpenSSF should have a working group for shared things across OpenSSF to give everyone a one stop shop for finding these things. A lot of work up front. Important to everyone in the …

Crob: I added it as an item in the next TAC agenda. Anyone interested in lending their voice show up to the next TAC meeting next tuesday at 11:00 am US eastern time.

[Dan: do we need a whole group? Joint task force?]

Jonathan: that sounds good to me - TAC a good way to start.

Vicky: I don’t think it should stop any work… [on personas]. Suggest go forward and don’t wait for the TAC.

**Additional updates**

Jacques: proposal for _shared helpdesk_ for oss git repos. Vote to send it to TAC on 19th october. 

Jay: [SSC]: we had a community meeting - we’re decicing … working on name changes. We did / are considering vendor stuff. Our main priority to make sure framework brought to OpenSSF. Working on blog post(s) on SLSA and SSC. We went over a lot of controls as well.

**AOB**

**US Gov**: [The United States Securing Open Source Software Act: What You Need to Know  - Open Source Security Foundation (openssf.org)](https://openssf.org/blog/2022/09/27/the-united-states-securing-open-source-software-act-what-you-need-to-know/)

**PURL**: [Governance · Issue #190 · package-url/purl-spec (github.com)](https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/190)

Vicky: [on **PURL**] intentionally low governance / low overhead. Undoubtedly it needs to mature. But more people wading into it might make things more difficult. I counsel everyone to keep an eye on it.  I think people [involved in PURL] know [what they’re doing] … some people believe MIT has implied IP license… so MIT may be perfectly fine… Getting it resolved is a good idea.

Jonathan: I’ll be going through the **SSC document**.. Coming up with more comments. We can have an off-cycle meeting discuss.

**Action items**

This call



1. [Dan] Move the Goals doc to the repo


## 2022-09-15

**Attendees: (Change color or add your entry)**



* Jonathan Meadows (Citi) he/him
* Andrew Aitken (Wipro) he/him
* Jacques Chester (Shopify) he/him
* Randall T. Vasquez (Gentoo/Homebrew)
* Eric Tice (Wipro)
* David A. Wheeler (Linux Foundation)
* Jay WhIte (Microsoft)
*  (Google)
* Jacques Chester (Shopify)
* Kara Olive (Google)
* VM Brasseur (Wipro)
* Dan Appelquist (Snyk)
* Neil Allen (Morgan Stanley)
* Adrian Diglio (Microsoft)
* Antony Faris (MTHRSHP)
* Chris Green (Splunk)
* Christine Abernathy (F5)

**Agenda**



* Who will be scribe? David A. Wheeler & Isaac
* Any new friends?
    * Jay White (Microsoft) - esp how OSS is consumed/ingested
    * Neil Allen (Morgan Stanley)
    * Adrian Diglio (Microsoft), lead of Microsoft’s Software Supply Chain team
    * David A. Wheeler (Linux Foundation) - technically this is my first in this WG! Glad it’s going!
* Outreach
    * Andrew Aitken has reached out to automotive contacts
    * Jonathan met and briefed a lot of folks in Dublin OSS EU
        * Linux foundation groups:
            * Healthcare
            * Automotive
            * Energy
        * Multiple end users still at conference, interested in attending next meeting
* [Jay White] OSS Secure Supply Chain Framework (SSC)
    * OSS SSC Framework developed for the consumption of OSS
        * Original provenance was Microsoft 1ES (“One Engineering System”, cross-company engineering standards and tools) for internal use
    * Goal is to bringing this into the OpenSSF, eventually to become a formal standard (ISO)
    * Would like this paired with SLSA & other production-focused specifications. Often we only focus on one or the other, would like to work end-to-end & connected together.
    * GitHub repo: [https://github.com/microsoft/oss-ssc-framework](https://github.com/microsoft/oss-ssc-framework) 
    * Eight high level practices, followed by list of requirements. Informed by real world threats where attackers attacking open source, including links to them.
    * Has 4 Levels (maturity model), to help organizations prioritize things, each has a theme:
        * Level 1: General baseline guidance for OSS for years - inventory it, scan it
        * Level 2: Patch faster, so can operate faster than attacker. E.g., SALT Stack - it was fixed, did everything right, but many orgs took too long. It only took attackers 3 days to create an exploit & start exploiting at scale, leading to multiple compromises. E.g., auto-patching (accept the PR to update)
        * Level 3: Protect from compromised OSS. Malware scanning, dependency confusion, block, proactive scans of OSS used the most (to find vulnerabilities first)
        * Level 4: Aspirational, not meant to be done at scale. Mitigate against the most sophisticated threats (subverted build systems, etc.)
    * Levels are maturity-oriented, defined heuristically and pragmatically to comport with organizational progressions commonly in use already
    * Dan: What’s the intention? Bring into OpenSSF?
        * Jay White: Our intent is to bring this SSC into the OpenSSF - not sure which WG. Have presented it to several WGs. Intent is to get all WGs to get involved.
        * David A. Wheeler: LF is a PAS submitter for ISO.
            * Specifically: Joint Development Foundation (JDF), which became part of the Linux Foundation family in 2019, has been accepted as an ISO/IEC JTC 1 PAS (“Publicly Available Specification”) Submitter.
            * More info: [https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/blog/joint-development-foundation-recognized-as-an-iso-iec-jtc-1-pas-submitter-and-submits-openchain-for-international-review](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/blog/joint-development-foundation-recognized-as-an-iso-iec-jtc-1-pas-submitter-and-submits-openchain-for-international-review)
            * They’ve already using the Community Specification license, which makes this easier and helps counter some known problems.
        * The name and format of the framework may change during the incubation period, but the core intent not
    * Jacques: observation that L1/L2 helps with vulnerabilities generally; L3/L4 more with malice and active attacks
        * In threat table, specifically lists “Intentional vulnerabilities/backdoors added to an OSS code base” with an example (phpAdmin) and mitigation approaches (SCA-5)
    * Andrew:
        * still has “Microsoft, all rights reserved” on some parts; needs addressing. 
        * can you provide some clarity on the tools side? Are tools included?
    * Adrian: requirements are tooling-agnostic, but the framework includes an “implementation guide” with non-normative practical advice including pointers to useful tools, some paid and some free
    * VMB: please not another list of tools 
        * OpenSSF is working on a number of these which already need consolidating into a single source (e.g., SPDX Landscape)
        * Don’t spend your time making a tool list - instead, point to others’ tool lists
    * Jonathan: how should one conceptualize the scope and positioning of SSC relative to other frameworks? 
        * SSC is hyper-focused on safe consumption of open source
        * SSC originated (2019) with Microsoft 1ES, as a first-party guide to safe dependency ingestion
    * Andrew: SSC seems to have a compliance flavor. Is that fair?
        * Adrian: SSC is specifically rooted in real-world threat mitigation, not compliance
        * Adrian: management of non-OSS third-party software is out of scope for SSC. Different set of concerns there; separate topic.
* [Jon Meadows] Update from CISA Cloud SBOM working group
    * Jon couldn’t attend, but did talk with Alan. What about SaaS BOMs (BOMs from SaaS providers)? The group is moving away from that, more VEX etc instead of a full SBOM for now, though no formal decision has been made yet.
* VM: Best Practices WG intends to eventually take on a glossary, mostly reusing other definitions when reasonable.
* [Jacques] In securing repos WG, working on a help desk. It’s hard to get $cost/person. This is separate from the SWAT team.
    * VM: In education & SIRT SIG, revamping mobilization plan, they’ve been using $300K/year as our (loaded) number. Is it wrong? Sure, but it’s at least realistic.
* [Jon Meadows] Review Goals Document
    * URL: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PiOsbEfomuKofcEuLrVbq4zL8UhgS_pOmLI4XQhs8vs/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PiOsbEfomuKofcEuLrVbq4zL8UhgS_pOmLI4XQhs8vs/edit#)
* [Andrew} time permitting review of EU WG intro slides
    * Working on presentation, we’re out of time, will go over next session
* [All] Any additional notes from working groups
* 
* AOB


## 20220901

**Attendees: (Change color or add your entry)**



* Jonathan Meadows (Citi) he/him
* Andrew Aitken (Wipro)
* Randall T. Vasquez (Gentoo/Homebrew)
* Robert Nissa Holmgren (Spotify) he/him
* Daniel Sawano (Spotify)
* Dan Appelquist (Snyk) he/him
* Jason Keirstead (IBM Security) he/him
* Kara Olive (Google) she/her
* Georg Kunz (Ericsson) he/him
* Vinod Anandan (Citi)

**Agenda**



* Who will be scribe?
* Any new friends?
    * Dan from Snyk
    * Kara Olive - at Google - advocate for the user
    * Daniel Sawano - Spotify - security engineer 
    * Jason Keirstead - IBM - in vuln disclosures wg - heavy consumer - most important things in OpenSSF - end customer
    * Robert Nissa Holmgren - at Spotify - software supply chain
    * Georg Kunz - Ericsson - in OSPO - we all consume a lot of OSS - make sure consumers of OSS understand what’s happening - bring their concerns here
* News from the TAC Meeting? 
    * We were approved as a wg. 
    * Some discussion on the name… but we can work on it.
    * Working on an official zoom and github repo
    * Mission statement and agenda doc - as well as persona document - will go into repo
* [Nour] We had the following suggestion in our mission statement, capturing here for others to discuss if we’d like to accept it:
    * Suggestion: have a standing agenda item for reports from people who participate in other WG/SIGs.
        * Happy to add that… Any notable items?
        * Kara: In **best practices** wg - discussion on a new framework from MS. Would it be better in End User wg? Bridge between SLSA and the end user. Presentation forthcoming.
        * Andrew: sounds helpful. Some OEM / ISV specific. Some pieces missing. Worthwhile to get a talk.
        * Jonathan: agree. Interesting doc. Action for someone to reach out?
        * Randall: being discussed at a higher level in OpenSSF. That conversation needs to evolve.
        * Andrew: I’ll talk to Vicky about it.
        * Johathan: we **would** like to get a presentation from them.
        * Randall: some discussion on the timing - resources available?
        * Andrew: this is a framework that should be supporting end users so we should input on that.
        * Jonathan: agree. We’ll hold off and Andrew to check with Vicky.
        * Randall: **generating educational content** - meeting happening later today. They are leaning more towards developers. We should get involved to make sure that users get thought of. [https://github.com/ossf/education/tree/main/plan](https://github.com/ossf/education/tree/main/plan) 
        * Jason: the folks that need more education … actual customers are being left in the dark.
        * Randall: [various meetings happening] - in part 1 we identified an operational segment - kind of end users. It’s known but down to resources. Their mission is to educate about indiscriminate use of copilot and stackoverflow… 
        * Jonathan: let’s review what they’ve got and see if there are gaps.
        * Jason: in **vulnerability disclosures** - a field guide for finders. How to create a vulnerability report - how do you disclose it, etc…? Open for comments and additions.
* [Jon/Randall] Review [blog post](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LE23tFGpnzESZI-O-lXjXLv223mQ5NmussJq0hlX8VM/edit#heading=h.5wcpmgw9mxs3)
    * Jonathan : looks good - 
    * Dan: what we talk about when we talk about end users. We need to be clear that we’re not talking about “users of application” - we’re talking about decision makers about software.
    * Randall: we need open discussion on enterprise. We’re focused more on organizational end users vs. all end users. Change the meaning of the document.
    * Folks who are consuming commercial stuff 
    * Jonathan - focusing on that term “enterprise end user” - we need to have a side conversation about that and report back.
    * Georg: Dan is right - it’s kind of a LF terminology - that we talk about “end users” but it’s not actual users. We need to find the right terms - about consuming OSS in an R&D context.
    * Jason: the use case I think we need to cover - also people who buy enterprise software. It’s not being built - you have to consume those SBOMs. It has ramifications for all software - not just builders.
    * Jonathan: those that consume rather than produce.
    * Randall: to add context to “enterprise” - historically meant a unified system put in place - e.g. with RedHat - originally where “enterprise” came from here. Enterprise means you’re secure because someone thought about it for you.
    * Jonathan: I think we need an off-call discussion. We can then approve the blog article in the Slack channel.
    * Randall: we should have it done before OpenSSF EU - the 13th.
    * Jonathan: ideally by next week.
* [Jon] Deliverables-[Persona Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GQoxFfAnmN2AdBOH7fuOOro8LnHSebzmoIAHTa-dVXg/edit?pli=1#heading=h.v6fewuk9dghu)
    * Jonathan: personas, particular use cases, data used in decision making &lt;- one of the outcomes for the group.
    * Andrew: very impressive - I hope all can take a look at it. Thank you.
    * Jason: similar [document that the vulnerability work group has](https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/blob/main/docs/personas.md)… 
    * Jonathan: can compare / integrate
    * Jason: maybe an openssf-wide guide to personas? Could be merged.. Vuln wg very focused on developers. 
    * Andrew: one doc that defines personas across OpenSSF would help achieve one of our goals - to promote importance of end users.
    * Jonathan: we can try to work together…
    * Randall: what we have is a little different… in education SIG there’s some confusion about who is the end users.
    * Jonathan: the enterprise “thing” and the different personas in the enterprise thing.
    * Jason: we needed a persona for a cloud provider… similar to an OS vendor. Or a large enterprise that’s delivering SAS services.
    * Andrew: def of consumer - comes in conflict with our definition… helpful to get some alignment in these definitions…
    * Jason: idea of line of business owner - that person not in the picture.
    * Dan: OSPO person?
    * Jonathan: agree - i think that’s covered.
    * Kara: discussion of the name.. Is that’s why there’s discussion?
    * Andrew: separate the name from the definition.. 
    * Jonathan: 2 documents there - would be useful to review both. Work on the slack channel to come up with a single document.
* AOB
    * Jonathan: inviting additional companies / people to join this group.
    * Andrew: we have an initial cut for end users- healthcare, retail, banks, etc… not meant to exclusive. What’s important is to get more traditional end users. Focus on covering different industry verticals and different geographies. 
    * Jonathan: suggestion to reach out as a group to bring additional people. All inclusive.
    * Andrew: OpenSSF conducts town halls for new members - I made an initial cut of adding info on this wg. We can use to reach out to new prospects.
    * Jonathan: OpenSSF EU Day - we can meet.
    * Kara: Slack the right place to have discussions? Slack vs. meetings.
    * Dan: encourage using the slack as much as possible
    * Dan: re: prospective members - governments / non-profit orgs?
    * Jonathan: organizations that consume software..   So yes.


## 20220818 

**Attendees: (Change color or add your entry)**



* Jonathan Meadows (Citi) he/him
* Andrew Aitken (Wipro) he/him
* Nour Daoud Bösing (Spotify) she/her
* Jacques Chester (Shopify) he/him
* Randall T. Vasquez (Gentoo/Homebrew)
* VM (Vicky) Brasseur (Wipro) she/her
* Peter Singh [Fuzzy] (AstroTech)
* Robert Nissa Holmgren (Spotify) he/him
* Azeem Shaikh (Google)

**Agenda**



* Who will be scribe? **Nour Daoud Bösing (Spotify) she/her**
* Any new friends?
* [vmb] FYI: OSS SSC Framework
    * Supply Chain security guidance focused on consumers of OSS
    * 
* Meeting frequency
* Becoming a Real Working Group
    * [Steps and requirements for becoming a proper WG](https://github.com/ossf/tac/blob/0ab553e989ff706fd3df0c7d3c92a3cc8e683769/working-group-lifecycle.md)
    * Selecting a chair
    * Drafting an announcement blog post
    * Name!
* Where should we start?
* AOB

**Notes**



* [Microsoft project, OSS SSC](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YG-CVbKa7pVlNNkLAOV8O7kiY5mBoFXpehc1VOW0MW4/edit#) 
    * Regular community meetings 
    * They’ll try to join a WG - currently joining the best practices group 
    * Our end users group also makes sense for them 
    * Looking to have one demo from them 
    * This was presented in a few places, Randall will send them to the slack channel (#endusers) so they can be in touch with all of us. 
    * Used by certain tools - keeping the details to smaller groups for now. 
    * Special thing about this framework is that it’s targeted towards #endusers 
* Meeting Frequency
    * Bi-weekly for now and we’ll adjust as we see fit
* Becoming an official WG
    * Still need to reach out to a [TAC member](https://github.com/ossf/tac/) to see if they’re interested! (Bob joined last time)
* Chair and Vice Chair 
    * Chair: Jonathan Meadows
    * Vice Chair: Andrew Aitken
* Randall to draft the announcement post 
* Name: 
    * [#endusers won!](https://openssf.slack.com/archives/C03488JMKNX/p1659618364551359)
* Where should we start?
    * [Draft Deliverables](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PiOsbEfomuKofcEuLrVbq4zL8UhgS_pOmLI4XQhs8vs/edit#bookmark=id.ja167je3yzik) from our mission 
        * Jonathan’s Persona Document, etc. to our end users materials 
    * We’re interested in adding comms about the end users group into the marketing 
    * We’re looking to add more people in  
* Note that Spotify’s Nour will be on parental leave till March next year, Daniel Sawano and occasionally Robert Nissa Homgren will join from Spotify to continue Spotify’s contributions to this WG. 

**Action items**

This call

X Randall will send Microsoft to the #endusers slack channel 
- [ ]Jonathan will reach out to 
  - Will propose it to all TAC members - Jacques, Vicky & Jonathan will be on - everyone else is welcome. 
- [ ]Randall to draft the announcement post 
- [ ]Nour, Randall and Vicky[ finalizing the proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PiOsbEfomuKofcEuLrVbq4zL8UhgS_pOmLI4XQhs8vs/edit#) 


## 20220803

Recording:

[https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/AVSm0X0hU6waOReKlGb1EDyJUvgw8onbnIrDkGF9vQeM_qBP20o1IuWrPPHgZ2ae.g7yPsthXk63EWHEj](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/AVSm0X0hU6waOReKlGb1EDyJUvgw8onbnIrDkGF9vQeM_qBP20o1IuWrPPHgZ2ae.g7yPsthXk63EWHEj) 

Passcode: 26O!6qTJ

**Attendees: (Change color or add your entry)**



* VM Brasseur (Wipro)
* Abdur-Rahmaan Janhangeer (Metabob)
* Nour Daoud Bösing (Spotify)
* Munawar Hafiz (OpenRefactory)
* Bob Callaway (Google)
* Jacques Chester (Shopify)
* Randall T. Vasquez (Gentoo/Homebrew)

**Agenda**



* Who will be scribe? Nour
* Any new friends?
* Review 
* Discuss regular timing for the meeting
* AOB

**Notes**



* A new friend: Abdur from Metabob. 
* We are looking to review the 
    * Nour is walking through the changes she applied, applying the Spotify doc content
    * Generally the two documents were really aligned
    * Primary theme of the changes were around collaboration
        * Stress that the group will collaborate internally, across OpenSSF, and externally
    * Working through the comments one by one
    * VMB: Note that content is the important part; organization is secondary (if even that important
    * Future meeting topic: 
        * How to ensure that end user voices reach the wg (implementation)
        * Quantifying the end user representation
        * Future timings on Slack

**Action items**

Past calls
- [ ][Everyone] Review  and make any necessary chang**es in suggestion mode**
- [ ][Everyone] Read [https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.04008](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.04008) 
- [x][VMB] Send out doodle for the next call


## 20220721

Zoom: [https://us02web.zoom.us/j/83183222760?pwd=WmNFVDFuTGtzRjN6V1ZidTgzN0J3Zz09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/83183222760?pwd=WmNFVDFuTGtzRjN6V1ZidTgzN0J3Zz09) 

Recording:

[https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/K6OHSB-7Jyj18-SGhSuF2f-gCnsTE_Rzw2dCsc4TWdL3xwosgwnjNG1sUDBFpgLU.1ovMS6IWo-0ePHaZ](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/K6OHSB-7Jyj18-SGhSuF2f-gCnsTE_Rzw2dCsc4TWdL3xwosgwnjNG1sUDBFpgLU.1ovMS6IWo-0ePHaZ) 

Passcode: 2nvfB+sd

**Attendees: (Change color or add your entry)**



* Jonathan Meadows (Citi) 
* Nour Daoud Bösing (Spotify)
* VM Brasseur (Wipro)
* Eric Tice (Wipro)
* Munawar Hafiz (OpenRefactory)

**Agenda**



* Who will be scribe? Munawar 
* Any new friends?
* Finalize the mission/goals
    * 
* [Spotify’s end user community proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XGNqYHYn61PaUoD21466VHVSPvT3ivkkqhhRuFQBf08/edit) &lt;> [Existing Definition and Mission Doc ](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PiOsbEfomuKofcEuLrVbq4zL8UhgS_pOmLI4XQhs8vs/edit)
* [JM] Update on next steps for group following discussion with Brian
* [JM] thoughts on taxonomy for supply chain attacks white paper and threat model / SEER
* AOB

**Notes**

Who will be scribe?

Munawar has volunteered! (Jonathan will assist)

Any new friends?

Nour! Security eng at Spotify. Wants to cover the End user community proposal floated inside Spotify.

Finalize the mission/goals



* 
* HOMEWORK: Please work on this asynchronously so we can finalize this in our next call to prepare for a proposal to become a fully fledged working group. Work on it in suggestion mode and not edit mode.

[Spotify’s end user community proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XGNqYHYn61PaUoD21466VHVSPvT3ivkkqhhRuFQBf08/edit) &lt;> [Existing Definition and Mission Doc ](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PiOsbEfomuKofcEuLrVbq4zL8UhgS_pOmLI4XQhs8vs/edit)

Collaboratively edit the documents and wordsmith them before the next meeting. Spotify’s document augments the one that we produced earlier. 

On the Spotify Document (Nour). Spotify’s attempt to create a document and use it as a conversation starter between the other members of OpenSSF to establish a common ground. Basically wants to formalize what is an official channel to understand the good and the bad practices. Still nebulous about what is the meaning of the term end users. Then shift to what is an end user topic. Want to learn from this group about what this community means? 

JM: There is a gap in the OpenSSF community as if it is missing the end user’s voice. There is value in bringing that in. The three goals in our document do seem to match with Nour’s statements.

VB: This group is planning to become a working group and is now on course for that. We are also exploring a common understanding of the terms and there had been a lot of progress in the previous meeting on that. One of the deliverables is to find out how this group interacts with the other groups. In order to be effective, this group aims to be embedded with other groups. Not working as a silo. More horizontal as opposed to a vertical. 

NDB: What is the communication model for a horizontal working group?

VB/ JM: Eric and Vicky participate in almost all the WG meetings anyway. So, there is no need for a formal insertion. But the point is to make an impact in those conversations bringing in the end user’s perspective. For example the best practices WG is working on an education plan. This is critical for end users and therefore very much relevant. So this group will be very much active in that WG's meetings.

NDB: Perhaps we also produce some artifacts that others can consume. Say for security scorecards, we can bring in the end user’s perspective as in this is what is useful in the security scorecards and this is not, etc., may help those guys.

JM: Are there any specific groups that you think we should lean on?

NDB: Integrity, supply chain, best practices, specifically. Also keeping an eye on the others. 

JM: Citi’s goal is to have an end to end view and identify and plug in the gaps. 

NDB: Will work on bringing their ideas from the Spotify doc and prepare one document to rule them all. 

[JM] Update on next steps for group following discussion with Brian



* Brian asked where does this sit? A separate WG? 
* Concern on the potential overhead. Many people do this as a part of their day job. So, that may reduce the overhead a bit.
* By the time we are eligible to become a WG, the governance model that OpenSSF TAC is working on right now will also be matured. 

[JM] thoughts on taxonomy for supply chain attacks white paper and threat model / SEER

JM: Try and provide the use cases. Take the risks perspective and apply that to the threat model. Put the vulnerabilities in the appropriate taxonomy. There is a really good paper that came out this April. 

[Taxonomy of Attacks on Open-Source Supply Software Chains](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.04008)

Please read this excellent paper and ingest it. There is also a website that complements this. We may be using this as the taxonomy to follow. Reusing rather than reinventing the wheel.

AOB

VMB will send out a doodle for the next call. Watch the Slack channel for that

Action items
- [ ][Everyone] Review  and make any necessary chang**es in suggestion mode**
- [ ][Everyone] Read [https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.04008](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.04008) 
- [x][VMB] Send out doodle for the next call


## 20220707

Recording: 

[https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/eKz2nop3geWXAjUNhzslS1kdupynTaaKybG2GxnxZFNrP9gSiefxzcDqV44noHBw.1GSMaYMq_9WZZNyA](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/eKz2nop3geWXAjUNhzslS1kdupynTaaKybG2GxnxZFNrP9gSiefxzcDqV44noHBw.1GSMaYMq_9WZZNyA) 

Passcode: a41d*dCG

**Attendees: (Change color or add your entry)**



* VM Brasseur (Wipro)
* Varun Badhwar (Endor Labs)
* Jacques Chester (Shopify)
* Munawar Hafiz (OpenRefactory)
* Eric Tice (Wipro)
* Andrew Aitken (Wipro)

**Agenda**



* Who will be scribe?
    * Jacques jumps on the grenade (thank you! 🥰) 
* Any new friends?
    * Jacques - Shopify/Ruby
    * Varun - Endor Labs, prev Palo Alto Networks. Lots of focus on contributor experience, but need to think of enterprises consuming too.
* Review 
* AOB
    * Varun: discuss whether ‘end user’ is the right name
    * JC: [SEER proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fuzzH01qjdGweZGNSziHJlFqXNB8p9me5CDXDGdxuf4/edit#heading=h.q80r2j54uy3y) discussion

**Notes**

Jacques: SEER



* Comes out of Securing Critical Projects Group
* Rank based on priority for attention
    * A-O will need this: what’s Alpha and what’s Omega?
* Criticality Score is data driven, as is Harvard Census II
* But not all the data we’d like to have is available
    * Ex: can see download counts, but not whether the project is used in medical devices
* Elicit expert opinion
    * How likely is it that something bad would happen?
    * If it does happen, how bad would it be?
* Bring this to End User group to get their input as some of those experts
    * Get inputs that aren’t purely vendors
    * Improves the data
* MH: What’s the goal and process?
    * JC: Give experts some estimate training, then calibrate estimates, then a feed of projects to assess
    * Take data & roll into distribution, then roll distributions into rankings
    * Full info will be in the talk recording
* Not immediately recruiting end users to participate in assessments, but would like to after system comes online

Review 



* Munawar: there are some academic papers on the topic, as well as some industry definitions (Wikipedia, and in the doc). Added to the working doc. Maybe we need the academic perspective as well. Academic defns focusing on external users more.
* VM Brasseur: doc currently is composed of links to prior art, esp how CNCF defines it. Folks have suggested in other calls that CNCF defn be adopted since it’s already an LF defn. But CNCF approach may not be valid
* Jacques: sees it as a negative defn – not tech vendor or service provider
* Varun: is this end users as in people, or orgs/businesses?
* VM: we work with lots of orgs, telcos, retail, govts, academics, but we ourselves consume OSS to work on these efforts
* Andrew Aitken: when discussing with early on, was talking mostly about end user enterprises – medium to large orgs in private and public sectors.
* Jacques: End Consumer? Downstream Consumer?
* VM: useful to fall back on existing defns which talk about orgs too. “End user” has some history in OSS foundations as meaning an org (as opposed to a single human)
* Andrew: a challenge with alternative containing “consumer” is that many orgs have dual roles of consumer and producer
* Jacques: Can’t really be boolean, needs to be fuzzy, but: what you do is what you’re paid for, so Google fits as an end user
* Andrew: do we use “primarily” to ease the edges? Eg. Citi would be primarily a consumer though they also produce. Look at it as a statistical approach, what is the bulky bit under the curve? Eg. financial and health orgs are primarily consumers.
* Andrew: we should also emph private _and_ public 
* VM: we have a good start! Pending some word-smithing. What comes next?
* Andrew: Mission - what are we achieving and for whom? For mission, lots of alignment with OpenSSF charter
* Jacques: wanted to ensure end users had distinct and impactful voice
* Andrew: we can borrow / distill from TAC’s Technical Vision too
* Jacques: a few multiple audiences for OpenSSF: end user groups, undifferentiated users and the world, finally specific projects such as project management ecosystem maintainers
* Andrew: we want to make sure we keep that distinct and impactful voice in the mission
* Andrew: we also want to bring more end users and verticals into this group – public, telco, etc
* VM: could go into goals
* Jacques: ensuring smooth switchboard and escalation to TAC/GB
* VM: and end user representation to GB and TAC
* Andrew: TAC especially. What we do has to be implementable, and TAC/GB will be implementation oversight
* VM: what do we discuss in our next call?
* Andrew: Some more wordsmithing + some clear near term goals and timelines. Eg “in the next quarter we will recruit 3 more end user orgs”

AOB



* Varun: discuss whether ‘end user’ is the right name
    * Settled on yes - see above discussion

Past calls
- [ ]Jon will catch up with Brian about what’s required to create a WG
- [x]VMB put together a Google Doc for collaborating on a definition of End User (will drop it in Slack)


## 20220623

**Attendees: (Change color or add your entry)**



* VM Brasseur (Wipro)
* Jonathan Meadows (Citi)
* Eric Tice (Wipro)
* Andrew Aitken (Wipro)
* Munawar Hafiz (OpenRefactory)

**Agenda**



* Who will be the scribe?
* Introductions!
* Reason / outcome of group
* Define end user / consumer 
* Prior art?
* AOB

**References**



* 

**Notes**

Who will be the scribe?

It’s going to be a collaborative effort.

Introductions!

Not taking notes on this part.

Reason / outcome of group



* John: Looking at this from POV of a consumer of FOSS
    * Reasons for using it
    * Risks to mitigate against
    * OpenSSF is great but is missing the consumer view
        * Tool vendors consume as well, of course, but the vendor perspective is well represented in OpenSSF
    * Looking for this group to lead that persona: reduce risk for the consumers
* Thinking of this as a WG
* Charter
    * Guidance
    * Use cases
    * Personas
        * Functional persona example: procurement - how to ask for SBOMs and what to do with them
    * Recruitment/outreach

Define end user / consumer 



* AA: Revisit the definition of consumer
    * End users: people not necessarily producing or contributing back to FOSS
    * Your definition is broader?
    * JM: Yes, but contributors also consume
        * Don’t remove the contributing from the picture
        * Focus on the consuming, though
* AA: OpenSSF is very vendor-centric
    * Doing a great job of how to prevent/remediate upstream…but how about the end users?
    * All agree that we can do more here to make this easier
    * For example: All the workstreams are great, but not all apply to the consumers and critical infrastructure
        * Risk reduction for consumers
* VMB: Well aligned with OpenSSF work happening in other WGs
    * Similar to Best Practices…but different enough
    * Similar to Vulnerability Disclosure…but different enough
    * Provide guidance for the End User/Consumer persona
    * Really, it’s a new WG, we think
* Discussion on the different industries where this would be valuable
    * Healthcare, telco, more
    * Different industries bring in different supply chain issues.
    * AA: Critical that we make recruitment part of our charter
* The definition of end user
    * AA: Should make sure we get buy in from other OpenSSF groups so we can have a shared definition across the foundation
    * Scale may be different between large and small companies, but the strategic importance is equal
        * Volume != importance
        * Impact and value are much more important than volume (which is a factor but a smaller one)

Prior art?



* What sort of information already exists about inbound supply chain best practices for consumers/end users?
    * VMB: Tons of stuff, over many years, largely for license compliance but still applies
* We should start to collect these

AOB



* What are our next steps?
    * Bring in more people & perspectives
    * Jon will work on that while he’s at Austin
    * Have public sector participation
* Organizational structure?
    * Are we a WG? SIG?
    * Jon’s been talking to Brian about it
    * The TAC is in the middle of defining these things
* Meeting cadence?
    * Start with weekly
    * Will shift to biweekly
    * 6AM PT next Wednesday

Action items



2. Jon will catch up with Brian about what’s required to create a WG
3. VMB put together a Google Doc for collaborating on a definition of End User (will drop it in Slack)
